---
layout: post
title: Status on Questions for 2019
summary: Don’t get high on your own Supply
---
Following our modest approach "Don't get high on your own Supply" - questions have been asked beginning of 2019. Let"s have a look at our subjective status: 

1. As cities grow so will regulations, transport included. Will cars act **autonomous** in the context of major cities or **directed** by SmartCity guidance? -- Seems there's a kind of depression around autonomous developments, considering technology, data management, business models and regulations. Awareness about the role of city authorities has been increasing, specially in strong markets with big SuperCities. So has the conviction that automated cars need to be linked with SmartCity SW. Although there seem to be missing entities and structures to lead, as of now no business models in place. 
2. Will **quantification of uncertainty** (Bayes) go along with quantification of data and indicate probability on the chance to get a desired outcome of machine learning? Will human estimates (priors) help to predict what machine will do? -- Machine created logic and the management of the underlying data, doesn't seem to have fundamentaly change. Rather the broad application and AI branding of what ever technologies has happened in 2019. Bayes and Graphs based approach come to light, also productivity platforms like for conventional ML are missing. Prediction of Machine is still left to emulations in the Digital Twin World, although dramatically reduced data and learing models might reach more transparency. 
3. There’s **no free lunch** in social systems, just different ways to balance depth. As machine misses social, will capitalism establish a commercial system of tokens and cashflow to inspire interaction, services and maintain longevity? -- So far there seems no public infrastructure to build automation, services or safety on, it's happening in private business domains to increase productivity. Public authorities seems to have no business models or knowledge, how to build up infrastructures incl. RoI. 
4. Beauty arises from the desire to touch. It’s human to value **handcrafts** and enjoy human hugs. Will the value of human labour excel in creating hand-finished products, will human touch continue to define the value of social services? -- Human finished products and services might reach the same status as extinct species. One gets famous for killing one of these. Or like Zhora says in Blade Runner "Would I work in a place like this, if I could afford a real snake?"  
5. Advice to **recover machine** seems to be on a level comparable to medical treatments in the middle age. On/Off, Reset and Updates. Will machine intelligence provide insights, communication and formula for humans and other machines to purposefully repair and recover? -- Increasingly middle age. 
6. With Smart Phone growth in decline, will there be another iconified interaction instance or will a **Ubiquitous Virtual World** develop with different means to interact? A synchronised ambient surrounding parallel to and in the Real World? What will be the constraints for this Virtual Surrounding? -- More like different experiences for the Smart Phone as in context based AR and the broad application of speech to text with NLP. 
7. Trying to escape from boring business apps, training intense systems for experts and incomprehensible regulations, will there be a new generation of storytelling, **gamefied business apps**, connecting information to visualised objects accompanying ones journey? -- One will find inspirational approaches in SmartCity apps. 
8. Intelligence of machine can be paraphrased as seeking confirmation. Changing status from automated to manual and vice versa, verifying patterns, leaving responsibility with the client. How to limit confirmation overhead and foremost establish **machine** as taking on **responsibility**? -- Some advances in applying ML to reduce repetitions, apart just using different means like NLP to seek confirmation. 
9. Industrial production perfects off-line mode, programming and testing in the Virtual. Will application of sketches created in the Virtual enter the consumer space, means sketches and programs are directly executed in the Real, like **guided manoeuvre** of a drilling machine? -- Given instrumentation with BLE and following AR based interactions, there are some advances. Although micro-navigation in space is still a challenge. 
