layout: post
title: Human-Machine-Dialogue

---

Human-Machine-Dialogue (HMD) grows beyond Interfaces(see HMI), more networked and systemic behind the scene, applying intelligence and basically addressing all human senses. Giving the following inspirations dialogues can be designed and developed in favour of man: 

- **Human** -- The Leading Principle is for machine to follow man. It's catching-up the incapability of machine since its invention and really fulfill the promise of support man. It's no longer for man to adapt to machine, so it's also not the instrumented or machine-hybrid human. Rather machine, at least the ones communicating, needs to understand human senses and to reach a cognitive level to interact. 

- **Context** -- Machine can't act autonomous ego or behave like an autist. Like humans they need to communicate and interact in a context - time, space, mood, mode and so forth. Machine, rather a system intelligence, needs to understand and build on this context. Which addresses one of the biggest challgenges of HMD: Repetition and Confirmation. Only context allows for an effective dialogue.
- **Transparent** -- As the HMD is supported by a system of components, humans need to understand machine to machine conversation. Not like monitoring details with a Lan probe, rather the conversation of content regarding human matters between machines has to be transparent for man. Which creates an understanding actions and delegation, and creates trust.  
- **Automation** -- The environment around machine needs to enable automated action and HMD relevant executions. Machine can't be about programming humans anymore, means just do the information processing leave the action to human. Like in navigation, "Turn right, then sharp left” is programming. Ideally machine shouldn't tell humans what to do, instead rather execute. Increase of intelligence in the sight of man via capability for execution.
- **Hero** -- Machine needs to ensure making the user a hero. The statement is "Don’t let me look stupid". Machine needs to understand human capabilities and prepare action which can't be automated. The aim is to grow a hero with machine. 
- **Time Machine** -- Keep humans out of the race. Machine is about automation, automation is about acceleration, accelerate like machine is not for humans. Involve humans only for relevant matters and give them time. So machine needs to understand when and for what to involve humans. One of the biggest gifts by machine, is to give humans time, to think, to react, to enjoy. 
- **Recognition** -- Think about humans not recognizing their opposite when talking: cloths, shoes, watches, scratches. Quality of recognition, for any kind of objects, media and interfacing, is paramount. Think about (love) how fast humans recognize and build immediate estimates. Quick recognition of everything necessary for dialog and, top discipline, of the human mood in dialog.  You won’t reach your objective not considering the unspoken details of your neighbor, and neither will machine. 